[Music]
so welcome to our talk recognising the
health risks of game development beyond
carpal tunnel I'm Wendy to Spain we're
not in order here but this is Patricia
Peyser and Lydia Breen and Adam Martin
and thank you for the one person
applauding this was kind of a hard talk
to give I'd love have wanted to give it
for a while but it's hard to get people
to do it so genuinely I want you guys to
know that these are people sitting up
here today are the brave ones I had
asked at least two other fairly famous
developers not that these guys aren't
famous but well-known people in the
industry who said yes I want to talk on
this topic this would be great and then
their PR department found out what they
would be talking about and their PR
department said no way are you talking
on this topic so we I'm a contractor I
work with lots of different studios and
companies and these guys have started
their own companies so their PR
departments are not a little queasy
about talking about the fact that there
are some health problems with working in
the game industry
No we'll get there so this is why I
wanted to give the talk I have started
teaching students about game design and
they're very excited about game design
and they're very excited about getting
into this subject and not worried at all
about what it will do to their life and
when I try to talk to them about it they
say well you know it might give me
carpal tunnel but there's surgery for
that now so what's the big deal and when
I talk to all of my game industry dead
friends they say yes I'm on my fifth
spinal surgery there's a big disconnect
between what students coming into the
industry think their life is going to be
in the game industry and what it
actually is for people who have been in
the industry for a long time so I
started to wonder is this just me just
my friends who are willing to talk to me
about hey you know dumped on me all of
my health problems because I have my own
health problems and I wondered if I was
getting a skewed view you know maybe
it's just that people like to complain
to me about the health and maybe it's
not the entire industry that has these
problems could be I like to check things
out before I go and tell everybody we've
got to change but no this is a real
thing
people are really dying some of us in
this room have friends who recently have
been added to the list of game
developers who have died and so it's
kind of a tough topic to talk about
because when we're talking about it's
dangerous it's not just well
you'll have to go through one brutal
surgery at some point in time there are
real dangers in this industry that need
to be talked about so I went through to
kind of analyze why it is that people
are dying in our industry and it came
down to three things first neglect
they're just ignoring symptoms that they
have not going to doctors one of the
people that I talked to as I was
discussing this talk with them shared
the story of their friend who was a game
developer who felt fine and then there
was a little mole on his shoulder and
six months later he was dead because he
had cancer and cancer doesn't hurt so he
didn't go to the doctor he felt fine and
so if it had been caught six months
sooner he would have lived but he felt
fine so he didn't have his regular
checkups and things like that so the
other thing is reckless behavior which I
include driving while sleep-deprived
like when you've been crunching for
three weeks straight and you haven't had
enough sleep and you wake up on the
freeway going seventy where you don't
wake up and there are substance abuse
problems in the industry that sometimes
we admit and sometimes we don't and then
the third reason is the hardest one I
think for a lot of us but has hit home
fairly recently so um big question is
what is going on I like to do research
and not just guess so I I do
I'm gonna put together a totally
unscientific anecdotal interesting
survey to get feedback and stories and
find out if it's not just my small
circle of friends but get it out to as
many people as I possibly could so I got
lots of responses 420 answers from 27
countries and was very enlightening I
came up with the questions based on you
know things I know myself and research
on other industries that spend a lot of
time working in offices and creative
industries like television and movies
and some things like that the feedback
that I got really surprised to me
everyone kind of knew that they were not
taking good care of themselves with
their ergonomic and nutrition and taking
breaks and getting enough exercise I
have some really fun graphs I tried to
shove into this short presentation and
had to take out but I will make
available later because it's very
interesting information so when I talked
to people though and in the feedback
that I got written in in the hey write
anything you want they were like we know
this stuff we know we're not sitting up
straight at our desks are you going to
talk about mental health and so I kind
of went back to that oh right
suicide and not taking care of ourselves
neglecting ourselves yeah so the most
depressing answer I got on the survey
was this one
how many hugs you get in a day and at
first people were a little confused that
I meant at work like in the workplace so
I clarified pretty quickly that no I
meant your entire day and if you if you
look they're 192 people said they got
zero or one hug
per day on average and then the next
biggest chunk is one two three like this
is yeah not good there's been scientific
research on this that I can show you
humans are social animals and were
hardwired to hug each other had physical
contact they've done some really
interesting research recently about how
long hug and how much good it does and
the fact that getting a really good hug
at the beginning of the day can last all
day and have beneficial effects on
ironically enough your heart health like
your blood pressure and stuff and
holding hands helps petting your dogs
does help the the kind of rule of thumb
is that you need for hugs a day just to
survive eight hugs a day for emotional
stability and 12 hugs for healthy growth
and if you remember back we are not
getting one hug a day many people in the
game industry and this carries over into
and you know it's related to how many
friends you have and I'm not going to
judge if you're one of these people that
has 30 million best friends or if you're
one of these people it has you know one
best friend and that's enough and you
feel fulfilled and that's fine but the
scary statistics are the ones that I
highlighted that I don't have best
friends and I mostly hang out with
people I work with now they're not huge
numbers like most of the people there
say I have a few best friends and
acquaintances but it's not fantastic so
one of the efforts that's going on right
now is a support network that's being
built up for people who are feeling a
lot of anxiety and loneliness it's
called the take this project it comes
from the Zelda you know it's dangerous
take this it's dangerous to go alone so
there are some online support networks
that are springing up as people realize
that this is a real problem in our
industry and to get a little deeper into
it it has to do with like how much
stress you feel so how much of your last
year did you spend feeling stressed out
and yeah 37 percent were stressed out
for at least half their life in 2012
some of these statistics just started to
get me really sad and upset and partly
because I've had my own problems with
health that have been tracked back to
stress and yeah they're really
depressing things out there about what
kind of health problems stress can cause
and I've had doctors say this to me and
you know these kind of show it to that
pretty much any thing can any health
problem can be tracked back to stress it
personally I was having hair loss that's
not something that a woman my age
generally thinks is going to be a
problem in her life and my doctor said
no you're just stressed out and that's
what's causing your hair to fall out and
that's not fun so yes we have a creative
industry who likes to do things at the
last minute and kind of some people say
they thrive on that all the deadlines
coming but in reality stress like
they've done studies they can test this
numerically stress makes you less
productive it makes you less creative it
makes you less coherent it makes you
less rational and it makes you less able
to make great gains so if you're
stressed out it's actually impacting
your ability to do a fantastic job at
what it is that you love so let's talk
about some of the ways people cope with
this stress caffeine was on my list 19%
said they need a daily fix which is like
no I need my daily fix
and there were some funny comments
written in the other section like oh no
there's blood in my caffeine stream and
there were some scary ones like I drink
two to four liters of diet coke a day I
use other stimulants that aren't just
caffeine I thought that was brave of
someone to write in there and admit that
it's not just caffeine that we use in
our industry and yeah
while working 16-hour days six days per
week I was drinking coffee and Red Bull
and eating a leave cold and flu medicine
to get the boost from the
pseudoephedrine I put myself in the
hospital with atrial fibrillation that
means his heart stopped working
correctly so my next slide
it does grumpycat on it so yeah it's the
point I'm trying to make is not
necessarily about caffeine it's about
using these things long-term have
long-term effects on your health
and caffeine is not the most dangerous
thing that our industry uses to get by
yeah so the next question was let's talk
about alcohol and if this is to be
believed 32 percent of the game industry
just doesn't drink no but it's not like
this is the only survey where that
happens pretty much every survey that
asks people about how their their
drinking habits its underreported some
people said that I get I drink to get
drunk more than once a week and that was
4% in the industry sample I had and that
makes me worry like I worry
and the rest of them only the right
answer yes I drink moderately and not to
excess and only with friends so this was
the next slide a statistic that bothered
me do you have a hobby that does not
involve games and I I couldn't make that
up 25% that is literally like if you do
this 25% sorry it's it's another one 25%
of the game industry sample self
selecting that I had said no they had
nothing outside of games that they did
this goes back to what do you do to cope
with stress with life people emotions
some people are not getting far enough
away from their jobs that they have even
a hobby to escape from their job like if
you're always playing a game that's part
of your job as a game developer yes so
let's move on to the next one
if you woke up one morning with really
heavy painful ache in your shoulder for
no reason you can think of what would
you do
[Music]
call in sick and play games is that 47
right up there check in with a doctor is
83 ignore it it'll go away I have too
much work to do is that huge chunk
answers in the other section mostly had
to do with people who have had this
experience and they're like I'd call my
masseuse right away and get an
appointment or I'd call my chiropractor
or like they they knew exactly what to
do because they have this problem the
one that kind of scared me was google it
and then if it worried me what Google
said then I'd check in with a doctor and
go to work obsess over it was scary too
so 68% admit that they would ignore the
symptoms of what could be a heart attack
this terrifies me for so many reasons
because pain in your shoulder in this
classic symptom of a heart attack
but even if it's not even if you just
slept funny your body and your mind work
together and if we are ignoring things
like hey I wonder if that's a heart
attack what else is it in our lives that
we're ignoring like we are a lot of
those people said that they would call
in sick but then play video games all
day and not think about the fact that
they were in pain and that's just
totally divorcing yourself from your
mind and your body and that's not
healthy it's not gonna help you make
great gains so if I had to identify the
game industry dangers by Danger Danger
Danger so the things that people talked
about in their open-ended answers toxic
bosses toxic colleagues unrealistic
deadlines the shifting sands of
expectations like oh no we've got a bio
actually it's Monday what unrealistic
project plans yeah we're gonna make an
MMO in two months
let's go extreme pressure just this
sense that the job or the game
is everything and it's it's really not
more important than your life I promise
job insecurity was a big danger because
there are layoffs for unexpected reasons
all the time in our industry so a lot of
people are just worried that they're
gonna not have a job next week on
unconscious discrimination women
minorities there's flat-out bullying
creative dangers this one is just the
fact that we're we're doing creative
things and it's scary to have this baby
that you spend two years building in the
safety and security if your own little
studio and then you send it out the door
and people get on the forums and tell
you what they think it can be hugely
emotionally terrifying and hard and
there are toxic miscommunication loops
that one I put in there myself for a
terrible project I was on that had me
every time we talked it got worse and
worse and worse
but just because these are dangers does
not mean that nobody gets out alive it
just means that you need to be aware of
what's going on like if you see a sign
that says beware of falling rocks
doesn't mean that a rock has fallen on
your head it means pay attention if you
know they're coming you can avoid them
you can watch out for them so had to use
a gaming analogy of course so if you're
in a good questing party you need to be
aware of what's ahead and you need to
prepare you need to know you've got your
healer and your tank and your ranged
weapons user and you need a plan and I
have written in my little speaker notes
Leroy Jenkins because a lot of times I
feel like we are
as game developers especially the young
game developers are running into this
business excited about it totally
unprepared not thinking about the
dangers at all not paying attention to
the plans and the warnings and
everything that other people say so
they're you know what I'm talking about
go google it and have fun okay so we
can't all be the tanks and even if we
are we have to switch out if you've ever
ever played an MMO multiplayer game you
know you can't all do the same thing at
the same time so balance is balance is
super important and how do you know when
you go from hey this is weird I'm having
a hard time too
actually I need help so I'm kind of
gonna pass this over to Lydia not that
she can actually see the screen Lydia is
if you missed on the beginning based
here in San Francisco psychiatrist and
helped me out a lot with like how do you
figure out when you need help for your
mental health so so anyway I'm Lydia
Breen and I've been practicing in the
area for a little bit over a year but I
used to practice in Chicago for 13 this
is a little bit weird for me because I'm
used to one-on-one I don't give a lot of
presentations so as I've been listening
to when they talk have been sort of
wandering I'm contemplating what are you
guys all feeling
probably not gonna tell us but you know
do you relate to these these ideas do
you have friends that you worry about or
you worried about yourself and it may be
possible that you're not going to
actually think about that today but
maybe over the next few weeks these
ideas will come back to you as you're
going throughout your days but yeah so
Wendy approached me and said you know
I'm giving this presentation what kind
of like have an MD to give some credence
to these ideas and also to add the part
about psychiatry about mental health how
do you know if you have a problem well
people are different everybody's
different
one person's stress might be another
person's joy so it's not all that clear
and there's this concept of the baseline
up there we talk in mental health about
our baselines
some people never really get to a good
baseline but those are the chronically
mentally ill and probably not anybody in
this room but usually you can kind of
look back and remember okay when was I
last really happy when did I last feel
really relaxed I don't know how long ago
that is for you it could have been last
weekend it could have been last month it
could have been a year
those those benchmarks are pretty
important and sure we might have hard
years and we might have hard months and
we might not always need to see somebody
it's my opinion though that it's always
helpful to see a therapist
mine too I do psychotherapy in my
practice a lot of psychiatrists don't I
believe in it there's different kinds of
psychotherapy I can get into that later
too that medication can sometimes be
useful as well yeah so rather than
putting together an exhaustive list of
the DSM diagnosis there's there's too
many and I don't know for sure which
ones are the most common in your
industry they may not be any different
than any other industry where work
conditions are tough there's a lot of
them in this area
so but there are things that are obvious
to me that probably depression and
anxiety are pretty high up there may be
ADHD and certainly as Wendy mentioned
substance abuse that can make all of
them worse so if you're having trouble
sleeping if you're having trouble
getting yourself to eat because your
appetite is low those are kind of those
are kind of the the biggest ones that
you want to be thinking about and and
time is important people can sometimes
feel unable to sleep or have appetite
problems for a couple of days that might
not be a big deal when things start
lasting more like a couple of weeks it
is actually a big deal major depression
major depression are made a depressive
episode actually only requires two weeks
of symptoms to be clinical of
significance so we have problem sleeping
appetite problems trouble concentrating
getting tired way too easily just not
having enough energy to make it through
the day most days lack of interest in
things that used to cause cause you to
feel happier give you pleasure frequent
feelings of guilt or worthlessness the
the sense of feeling sort of just slowed
down or an agitated feeling and actually
people can see that and you usually a
slowed down or sped up look to you it
can be part of depression not quite and
generally of course depressed mood
depressed mood most of the day every day
constant worry irritability these are
kind of your anxiety symptoms having
muscle tension all the time or most of
the time
next there are a lot of symptoms under
panic attacks but panic is actually
pretty common and Wendy mentioned
physical symptoms there are physical
symptoms that can be caused by thoughts
by feelings by mental symptoms if you're
waking up every morning throwing up
that's probably a bad sign
if you have panic attacks which it's
like a very discrete and quick event of
a sudden sense of fear that usually
lasts only 10 minutes in its peak and
decline it has many possible symptoms
like shortness of breath palpitations
chest pain even feelings of things don't
feel real fear like going crazy if
you're of dying a whole bunch of things
that people have some people might have
a repeated thought or thoughts that they
can't get out of their head that's
obsessive thoughts or behaviors that
they know they can't control they have
to do in a certain way with OCD and then
emotional lability like crying way too
easily noticing your thoughts are racing
flying or not actually needing sleep
that can that can be the opposite of
depression only needing three hours of
sleep you feel rested you feel driven to
do more grandiose thinking and increased
involvement in pleasurable activities
they have a high potential for painful
consequences and then substance abuse
and we can talk about with the
difference between abuse and dependence
is if you like obviously if you're
hearing voices or you're having visual
hallucinations that's definitely a sign
of a psychiatric illness having paranoid
feelings that people are out to get you
and suicidal thoughts big one yeah if
you're having suicidal thoughts at all
regularly once a week once every few
weeks that's it's not normal and it's
something that you should talk to
somebody about
like fine I think the next slide is so
how to get help it's actually not that
simple I wish it were easier
most people will start with their health
insurance plan if they aren't
independently wealthy you can do that
you can call your health insurance and
say I need a psychotherapist I need a
psychiatrist and they will give you a
list and then you can start calling it
it is a process and it's unfortunate
that while you're feeling your worst you
have to now start calling and hope for
calls back and things like that there
are many different ways that therapists
are trained so I'm a psychiatrist I went
to medical school I did a psychiatry
residency but I'm also a therapist I
also prescribed medications so those of
us with the MD can prescribe medications
then there's the PhD and then there's a
social worker this is the whole range of
different trainings they could all be
good at what they do in terms of
psychotherapy they're different kinds of
psychotherapy you probably heard of
cognitive behavioral therapy there's
also a psychodynamic psychotherapy both
can be helpful for depression anxiety
sometimes things like OCD are really
better approached with cognitive
behavioral therapy and I think that's
probably about it step in with this last
thought really make sure I get it worked
in on there yes so know the laws in your
country and state one of the questions
on the survey was about hey your doctor
says you need an ergonomic keyboard what
happens if you go and tell your boss
that you need an argument Ferg anomic
keyboard and one person out of the 240
said I get my keyboard because if I'm in
a company more than 14 people employed
it's law that I get if I have a doctor's
note I get in it ergonomic keyboard so
um there are actual laws on the books
that help you
to be safe at work I am NOT a lawyer
that's like the I need to make sure that
you all know I am NOT an attorney I am
NOT an expert in in labor law or safety
at your workplace but that doesn't mean
that you can't go to the Internet and
educate yourself it's an important topic
and different in different states and
different countries but OSHA is the
place to start in the US so yeah it's
dangerous be careful out there take care
of yourself you need to know that you
are the one that's responsible for your
own health your employer isn't gonna
send you home when you need a vacation
unless you have an extremely nice boss
but your health is your responsibility
you need to take care of yourself and
[Music]
that's like my key takeaway message is
learn about it educate yourself and take
care of yourselves because it's
dangerous out there but you can do it we
can we can live we can survive we can do
this so that's the end of my like
official presentation II bit I have
other people here on the panel because
yeah that's just hey this is who we are
again real live war stories personally
I've got a mystery disease that we have
not yet figured out I go from Doctor to
doctor and it's no fun we've discovered
a few things
not all of it is you know job-related
but things like hey my hair fault is
falling out there like Kate stress ease
up on the stress and hey look the hair
stops falling out it's remarkable but I
don't have quite the same like direct
job-related war stories that some of my
panelists have if they're willing to
share and we did get lots of war stories
from the survey people sharing scary
stuff like my boss is so terrible that I
can't sleep at night I'm drawing a blank
so you guys need to jump in and help me
out here because are there any worse
stories of your own you're willing to
share one of the things that really
struck me from the survey was how many
people when given the opportunity to
give advice to their younger selves said
don't crunch that crunch was not worth
it and that no game was worth their
health
I was the QA lead and manager on a
project that had an extended crunch
going up ship we shipped on Friday on
Sunday I came down with bronchitis
because my body finally said oh okay I
can relax now and I instantly got sick I
have heard stories of everything from
eczema to hypertension to post-traumatic
disorder resulting from bullying office
environment yeah office environments
yeah those are really very real dangers
my personal pet peeve in this area is
chairs if you're working in a small
company and you're likely sitting in a
really crappy chair and like these ones
I was working one day and realized that
my arm was going numb and as it turned
out it was because of my chair and I
ended up going out and spending $1,500
on a real office chair because I decided
that feeling in my dominant hand was
worth it I one of the reasons I also
started giving this talk is that I had a
friend say you've got students you're
talking to students tell them if there's
only one thing you can teach them it's
to sit up straight at their desk have
good posture because I've had five
spinal surgeries for nothing I was like
were you in a car accident he said no
it's just from sitting slouching at a
desk for 15 years 16 hours a day and so
he's got titanium rods in his spine and
I know yeah and it's my experience with
them I had what was suspected to be
carpal tunnel syndrome and it got to the
point where after about a year and a
half agonizing pain doctors were trying
to get me to go for surgery but it got
worse and worse it got to the point of
burning pain from tips of fingers
way up the arm to mid arm sensations of
freezing sensations of electric shock
drug stopped working there was no
painkillers stopped having effect and it
eventually turned out and that this is a
positive story to come out eventually
turned out that it was all due to bad
posture because I used to do a lot of a
lot of rowing and I had big shoulder
muscles so bad posture fat as I'm
sitting now to mean to microphone I
should be but leaning forwards like this
the pressure or nerves in the back of
the neck was called all those nerves run
down through your arms and everything
was purely all the sensations none of
them were biological it was just the
effect of nerves being being pinched and
squeezed and I found this out by
accident climbing a tree to get a
frisbee down for someone and hanging
from the tree
stretching out the arms suddenly all the
pain went away and so then the necks of
three or four months looked into this in
more detail and I'd been to lots of
specialists already with no results and
started doing yoga and Tai Chi and
gradually the symptoms went away and got
much better and ended up with me doing
for the last seven years doing Tai Chi
quite seriously so I'm now fitter
stronger and a lot healthier than I ever
was before it's great for your health is
great for your mental health it's very
calming but I would never have bothered
to get into that had it not been for
this this single experience and I think
the scariest bit was the multiple
doctors who were suggesting surgery for
something that was literally not the
cause of the problems I actually have a
picture of the surgery but it's a little
early in the morning for showing it yeah
it's quite brutal stuff yeah I want I
use it for my students you say oh well
you can fix
tunnel surgery I'm like hey you want to
see what that looks like and then they
say oh maybe I should work on my typing
skills a little better anything else or
do we want to open it up for questions
all right sounds like we've got question
time I cannot move but yeah we've got a
ton of so as people are walking up or
not
having questions how many questions if
you could go to the mic mice that would
be great then everyone can hear hear I
must do at Northeastern University I'm
in game design and I'm currently working
in the lab so I understand what you're
like a lot of I don't know I had a sense
of experiences you have in terms of like
you know sitting from the computer but I
definitely have dead weight you know
just hours upon hours just staying in
front of a computer in my right hand
actually how to get a magnet
I think magnetism helps a lot but I
still feel the pain and you know even
testing beta testing as well
controllers what have you it is
definitely what I have to do both the
designing scripting and the beta testing
it can be a living hell so yeah one of
the funny stories that was put into the
survey was that on the typing question I
had other and they said heya for those
of us who work on connect titles we're
all getting rotator cuff problems
because we spend all day doing this in
our chairs and things like that so it
can be anything it's not just typing but
any repetitive motion that you do over
and over again one of the key things
that we ran across is just how important
it is to get up periodically and even
just walking to the water cooler and
getting yourself a glass of water has a
significant effect I show them that
scary slide I'm
show them the scary slang yeah has a
significant effect on your chances even
of getting cancer see if I can make it
so what ever so beautifully as I do this
from the left to the right when I was
researching posture I did a lot of
reading about what's the best posture
because all of us aren't strong enough
to hold our posture correctly and the
best recurring Peaks for medical advice
I found was whatever posture you haven't
been sitting in for the last 15 minutes
it is it's this thing of movement your
body is really really bad unless you
have exceptionally good posture and it
took me probably three four years into
Tai Chi before I had good enough posture
to literally sit still completely still
correctly I just didn't have the
strength in all the muscles but for
everyone else for most of us it's a case
of just keep moving I have a friend who
started yoga and one of the first poses
that you learn in yoga is called the
corpse pose where you lay on the floor
literally and the instructor kept coming
over and saying you're doing it wrong
you're doing it she's like how do you do
corpse pose wrong and he would push on
her shoulders because she was so hunched
this way that her shoulders were not
touching the floor when she laid back so
I mean get up and move around this the
scary slide is that the yellow parts of
the day where you just get up and go get
a drink of water that's considered
moderate exercise getting up and walking
around your office and any moderate
exercise throughout the day greatly
reduces your chances of getting cancer
of all things so you've got a question
so go ahead it's actually not a question
and that's is not my real voice but I'm
with an 80 person company so we're not
the super giant but we're not small yeah
the other thing I'm the director telling
culture and I came from
their tech world so I would also say
there may be some warnings out there
from the rest of tech world because they
do it too
absolutely but we have an EAP and so the
other thing I noticed when I came out a
year ago is most people didn't know it
so I feel like the EAP fairy
I have little fliers and anytime
somebody's looking stressed I'm like
okay what's going on with you and if and
then I'm like why don't you consider
this and so there I mean there are tools
that are there but you may not know that
yes will you say the full AAP I bet a
bunch of people here don't even know it
is it is a sort of a subset of your
insurance policy that's called the
Employee Assistance Program usually
there's a 24/7 hotline so you know
definitely you know in a moment of
crisis you don't have to wait until the
next day to see if you still have crisis
you can call the 24/7 hotline somebody
will talk to you and they will refer you
and typically there is a set number of
free sessions for each EAP and it
doesn't have to be I'm depressed or
suicidal it can be I can't deal with the
fact that my parents need care now or
you know my kids got issues and so it's
also a way to get other community
resources that you don't have time to go
research on your own it can be a way to
find that you know oh I do need a
therapist that's how I found one of my
therapist once was calling EAP right so
there's tools out there that even
well-meaning employers and employees may
not know about yeah so definitely go and
ask and the other thing is that it's
it's becomes part of your culture if
you're the one that wants to go walk or
ride or whatever at lunchtime we have a
whole group of people that go every day
at lunchtime and they run in the
exercise and they all do it differently
but it what it is is that because
there's multiples of them somebody's
always in the mood and that will
encourage the rest of people to go so
you can can start shifting your culture
in small ways that are not going to
freak anybody out yes there were a
couple of things in the survey that
we're like be careful about like
companies that have the gym and the food
and everything there
because it's actually a trap you're
never gonna leave because you can just
sleep at your desk and yeah so watch out
for that but but you can you can be a
force for change for your colleagues as
well like when you start making a change
in your own life yeah this is for this
questions for Patricia and Adam and also
for for Lydia as well I'm a faculty
member teaching game development and
obviously that is a major issue with
trying to always fight that culture but
at the same time there's a certain
amount that the students do need to do
to be able to compete in the in the to
get into the career do you and I do try
and I have breaks every hour and I have
a big section about cumulative trauma
disorder and health disorder in my
syllabus but beyond just taking breaks
are there some other things the three of
you could suggest both for the physical
and the mental side just little things
within the classroom and that I can
start to kind of integrate help them
integrate into their practice so I'm
gonna do a shameless plug at this point
as a hobby I run a site called I love
crunch whose purpose is to just document
and pull together what people are saying
about crunch and what the evidence is
and the anecdotal stories and I get no
benefit from this it's no ads or
anything it's just it's there as a
service for two reasons one is that a
lot of a lot of teams and companies lie
outrageously about their crunch
behaviors and what I've seen working
with students is a lot of their
impressions come from what they've read
in the press and frequently what they're
reading in the press is bald-faced lies
there's an awful lot of it it's been
through multiple layers of PR people has
been through multiple people arcing
people and to combat that was the main
reason we started this site to document
what's actually happening at these
companies so you can go there and you
can click on any company title and any
project title and see what's been
publicly said
not just by the managers and the leaves
and so on but the engineers the artists
the programmers working on it and I
appreciate your your problem you're
fighting a rearguard action against the
overwhelming set of public statements by
people who will go nameless because I
don't want to be sued but said making
statements like if you do not crunch
you're unprofessional and you will never
work for my company which is completely
outrageous and entirely wrong but the
one of recurring things we see well on
the the studies is that pretty much
everything people think they know about
their working habits is wrong you cannot
self diagnose how effective you are how
well you're working and you have to get
other people to verify it there was a
thing we did at one team which we found
worked really well which was doing an
connect for playing online anonymously
with a maximum of three seconds per turn
and it's such a simple game we all know
how to play it but it turns out three
seconds per turn really checks how alert
and awake you are because you can lose
in three moves just because your brain
isn't functioning and you can do this
after a cup of coffee first thing in the
morning when you think you're wide awake
and so we found doing really stupid
tests like that but really simple ones
was a massive eye-opener for all of us
it would even show up did you go out and
drink alcohol last night it made a
noticeable effect on how often you the
one versus lost and my experiences
beyond something like that that's very
in-your-face and evidence-based no one
is convinced but I would I'd recommend
doing stuff at that because also quite
fun and I do that too actually it's not
the same game but I I play a game to see
how alert I am because I know if I'm
alert if I'm really functional I can win
every time and when I lose I'm right
okay
time for me to stop because I'm gonna be
making more mistakes that I have to fix
tomorrow then I'm gonna make progress
and just one last piece of advice get a
hobby
yeah hobby that is not playing yeah yeah
absolutely
that one that terrified me that 25% of
the respondents had nothing beyond games
in their life the CA is you're telling
us we're done come on up and ask us the
questions thank you